Welcome to Retrieval of Mental Generation from Devon and the AI.
Retrieval of Mental Generation or RAG is the most widely used technique
for improving the quality and accuracy of a large language model's response.
An OEM starts off knowing only information from maybe the public internet data it was trained on.
So if you needed to answer questions using facts drawn from proprietary data, say your own documents,
RAP lets the model do this by providing the model access to that additional data.
Assistant LLM answered questions with facts
that it was not already trained on.
For example, you may also have seen a chatbot
like chat.jp or call the Gemini tell you
is searching the web to help answer your question.
This LLM is accessing additional information
to try to make sure the response is up to date and accurate.
I'm excited to introduce your instructor for this course,
Zan Hassan.
Zan is experienced AI and machine learning engineer
and researcher and educator.
he spent much the last decade working at a handful of exciting AI companies like
Revier, which is a leading vector database company providing one of the key components
to RAG as well as Together AI, which is a provider of services.
Thank you, Andrew.
I'm super excited to be here.
What I love about RAG is the fact that it provides a simple
and practical way to focus the power
of large language models.
The core idea of RAG is pairing classical search systems
with the reasoning abilities of large language models.
With this course, we've tried to balance covering
foundational concepts underlying both search and LLMs
and the practical tips for applying these concepts
architect a high-performing rack system.
Even though the concept of RAG is not complex,
there's a zillion ways to implement it
and the design choices make a huge difference
in accuracy and speed of your system.
You'll learn how to prepare your data
to be used in this system, prompt your language model
to get the most out of that data
and evaluate actual user traffic
to ensure you're providing high quality responses.
So you're going to leave this course
with a lot of practical skills
to build and tune your RAG system
and have the foundational understanding
why these techniques work.
It's an incredibly useful skill set and has applications to a huge variety of industries.
I think RAG may be the most commonly built type of online based application in the world
today.
Large companies are using it to help their customers get answers to questions about
their products or help their own employees get answers to the company's internal policies
or other matters.
Startups are also building RAG applications in many virtuals like healthcare such as
answering medical questions or in education to help to the students on a range of subjects
and so on. One interesting thing about RAG is that as LM technology improves, RAG systems are also
rapidly incorporating these technologies. So for example, the recent generation of models have
been much better than those from one or two years ago at getting RAG systems to be more grounded
in the documents or context is given, so that over the last year or so, it feels like the
hallucination rates of RAC systems have been steadily trending downwards. And reasoning models
also let them tackle much more complex questions and can reason on top of the provided context.
And one interesting change over the last couple of years is as the input context window of LLMs
has gone up, the hyperparameter tuning, you know, what exactly do you insert into the RAC,
how do you cut documents, the pieces, the signal input context. The best practices,
which Xan is really expert on, has been evolving as well because now you don't need to squeeze so
much information into a tiny little context window. And as agentic document extraction
and related technologies improve, you can now also more easily build RAG systems on top of
PDF files or slides or other types of documents so you can build RAG systems to
more easy, ingest, and reason over and answer questions relating to broader
sets of materials that you may have.
And more broadly, as teams are building more complex, multi-step agentic workflows,
RAG is often then one component in a complex agentic workflow where maybe on,
you know, step five of step seven of some internal enterprise workload,
RAG gives the agent information that needs in order to process a doctrine or reason
about a customer request.
Oh, I completely agree.
even as the AI field continues to evolve rapidly,
I don't think RAG's going anywhere.
LLMs will continue to benefit from access
to high quality relevant data.
I also think this course gives a really strong foundation
to work with all of these cutting edge advances.
We've included a huge variety of advanced techniques
in this course from multimodal or reasoning models,
like you mentioned, to balancing approaches like RAG,
fine tuning, and newer long context models.
One technique that I'm personally quite excited about
is agentic RAG, or building systems
that use multiple large language models
where each one handles a single part of a large workflow
and has the agency to decide what data to retrieve.
This is right at the frontier of where companies
are pushing the performance of LLM-based applications.
I think the early generation of RAG systems
was a human engineer that would write a bunch of code
or write a bunch of rules to decide to give the query
This is how we take a long document, how we color the pieces,
how we retrieve it, and we're gonna take, you know,
seven pieces or something to put into our own context.
So as we've been a human engineer deciding
what to give as context for the arms to answer a question.
And the thing that's really interesting
about agentic RAG is you can give a AI agent tools
to retrieve information and then let it decide,
does it want to do a web search next?
And if so, what key words does it want to use
for the web search, or maybe query a specific
specialized database and after retrieving the first round of
invasion, is it good enough or do you want to do a second round of retrieval?
So these highly agentic systems can then decide by themselves what information
to retrieve to serve a specific information need.
And I find that to be an important way to make the systems much more
flexible and powerful.
It gives them a way to deal with the messiness of the real world.
they mess up, they can route back and fix the approach that they're going with.
So going all the way from basic rag to advanced agent rag, in this course, you learn about
this range of techniques, both from the core principles and the mental frameworks of how
the building systems to the practicalities of how do you actually tune a hyperparameter
of what's the appropriate chunk size to cut a very long document into and how to
manage context.
And if you are just starting out on the earlier phases of building out
GenAI applications, I think that this course will give you a good overview of not just RAG,
but many of the components that go into RAG that will be useful for other things you may build
in the future as well. So I think that this course will set you up absolutely to do RAG,
but more broadly, it's a good foundation to think about how to assemble many of the tools
that we now have in GenAI to build an application and to evaluate it and to drive continued improvements.
So far, Zan and I have chatted about RAG and why we think it's important and why we think you
benefit from learning about it. And in the next video, Zan will present a high-level overview
of what are the most important components of RAG so that whether you're building a standalone RAG
system or building as one component of a more complex agentical type of system,
you have that mental map for what are the things you need to do to get the defective rag system going.
So let's take a look at the next video to dive into the details of rag.